# Ship Detection Project
The aim is this project bulding a model with using google colab and detects container ship,bulk carrier,tugboat,ro-ro,tanker ships.
## Tools: 
Roboflow,Kaggle for dataset.
Yolo8.
There will be two dataset one is small other one is large.
## Repository Structure / Files
bitirme_projesi.ipynb: The main source code of the project. 

demo_output/: This directory contains the finalized outputs of the training process and include this files best.pt,data.yml,results.png

best.pt: The trained model weights with the highest mean Average Precision (mAP). This file is used for testing.

data.yml: The configuration file that defines class names and dataset paths for the YOLO architecture.

results.png: Visual representation of training metrics, including Loss functions and Accuracy (mAP) scores over epochs.

Note: This is just demo and in this demo there is not all ship types included we mentioned above.
## Ship_detection_v1 (Small Dataset)
Project update version 1 this file is different because new classes added such as, Bulk Carrier and Tugboat and dataset optimized to 700 images.

Training: 50 epochs on YOLOv8n.

Twelve images of the tugboat were uploaded and the labeling process was carried out by us.

Two different dataset generated by Roboflow were combined and a data cleaning process was performed.

Google Colab Code are inside the file as ship_detection_v1.ipynb.

All outputs are included and their information written in that file readme.txt

## How to Use
1- Clone the repository.

2-Open bitirme_projesi.ipynb or ship_detecton_v1.ipynb in Google Colab.

3-Link the best.pt file from the demo_output or ship_detection_v1 folder to run the model on your own images.


